docs: improve integrations guide & import model using absolute path (#2076)
janhq/jan: docs/docs/guides/04-using-models/03-import-models-using-absolute-filepath.mdx

keywords:
  [
    Jan AI,
    Jan,
    ChatGPT alternative,
    local AI,
    private AI,
    conversational AI,
    no-subscription fee,
    large language model,
    import-models-manually,
    absolute-filepath,
  ]
---

In this guide, we will walk you through the process of importing a model using an absolute filepath in Jan, using our latest model, [Trinity](https://huggingface.co/janhq/trinity-v1-GGUF), as an example.

### 1. Get the Absolute Filepath of the Model

After downloading .gguf model, you can get the absolute filepath of the model file.

### 2. Configure the Model JSON

Navigate to the `~/jan/models` folder. Create a folder named `<modelname>`, for example, `tinyllama` and create a `model.json` file inside the folder including the following configurations:

- Ensure the filename must be `model.json`.
- Ensure the `id` property matches the folder name you created.
- Ensure the `url` property is the direct binary download link ending in `.gguf`. Now, you can use the absolute filepath of the model file.
- Ensure the `engine` property is set to `nitro`.

```json
{
  "sources": [
    {
      "filename": "tinyllama.gguf",
      // highlight-next-line

>       "url": "<absolute-filepath-of-the-model-file>"

Reviewer: Please note for Windows users: you may encounter issues if using the Copy Path option and pasting it here. The correct URL format should be: C:\\Users\\Name\\jan (with double backslashes) instead of C:\Users\

---
title: Import Models Using Absolute Filepath
slug: /guides/using-models/import-models-using-absolute-filepath
description: Guide to import model using absolute filepath in Jan.
keywords:
  [
    Jan AI,
    Jan,
    ChatGPT alternative,
    local AI,
    private AI,
    conversational AI,
    no-subscription fee,
    large language model,
    import-models-manually,
    absolute-filepath,
  ]
---

In this guide, we will walk you through the process of importing a model using an absolute filepath in Jan, using our latest model, [Trinity](https://huggingface.co/janhq/trinity-v1-GGUF), as an example.

### 1. Get the Absolute Filepath of the Model

After downloading .gguf model, you can get the absolute filepath of the model file.

### 2. Configure the Model JSON

> Navigate to the `~/jan/models` folder. Create a folder named `<modelname>`, for example, `tinyllama` and create a `model.json` file inside the folder including the following configurations:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the `~/jan/models` folder. 
2. Create a folder named `<modelname>`, for example, `tinyllama`.
3. Create a `model.json` file inside the folder, including the following configurations:
```

> - Ensure the filename must be `model.json`.

Reviewer 2: Since we already asked the users to create a `model.json`, we should remove this.

- Ensure the `id` property matches the folder name you created.
- Ensure the `url` property is the direct binary download link ending in `.gguf`. Now, you can use the absolute filepath of the model file.
- Ensure the `engine` property is set to `nitro`.

```json
{
  "sources": [
    {
      "filename": "tinyllama.gguf",
      // highlight-next-line
      "url": "<absolute-filepath-of-the-model-file>"
    }
  ],
  "id": "tinyllama-1.1b",
  "object": "model",
  "name": "(Absolute Path) TinyLlama Chat 1.1B Q4",
  "version": "1.0",
  "description": "TinyLlama is a tiny model with only 1.1B. It's a good model for less powerful computers.",
  "format": "gguf",
  "settings": {
    "ctx_len": 4096,
    "prompt_template": "<|system|>\n{system_message}<|user|>\n{prompt}<|assistant|>",
    "llama_model_path": "tinyllama-1.1b-chat-v1.0.Q4_K_M.gguf"
  },
  "parameters": {
    "temperature": 0.7,
    "top_p": 0.95,
    "stream": true,
    "max_tokens": 2048,
    "stop": [],
    "frequency_penalty": 0,
    "presence_penalty": 0
  },
  "metadata": {
    "author": "TinyLlama",
    "tags": ["Tiny", "Foundation Model"],
    "size": 669000000
  },
  "engine": "nitro"
}
```

:::warning

> - Windows users may need to use double backslashes in the `url` property, for example: `C:\\Users\\username\\filename.gguf`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If you are using Windows, you need to use double backslashes in the url property, for example: C:\\Users\\username\\filename.gguf.
```

:::

### 3. Start the Model

> Restart Jan and navigate to the Hub. Locate your model and click the Use button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Restart Jan and navigate to the **Hub**. 
2. Locate your model and click the **Use** button.
```
